good evening and welcome to tucker
carlson tonight and coulter has canceled
a planned speech at the University of
California Berkeley tomorrow saying
physical threats from the left made
going there simply too dangerous Coulter
released a statement saying this it's a
sad day for free speech everyone who
should believe in free speech fought
against it or ran away
well after releasing that statement she
told Fox News Sean Hannity this I think
what's going on with Berkeley when you
have it shows how radical the
universities are generally I mean what
you're talking about I agree with yes
they want to destroy and squelch
conservative speech but there is a
separate issue with the universities
right now when you have Bernie Sanders
Elizabeth Warren Howard are on Bill
Maher Joy Behar and so on and so forth
when they're all saying Oh get over
yourselves Berkeley we have a First
Amendment people have fought and died
for the right to free speech you can see
the rest of the interview on Sean show
tonight at 10:00 well despite sabotaging
Coulter speech by forcibly changing the
date and refusing to supply facilities
Berkeley claims its commitment to free
speech remains quote absolute really
then one at defend and cultures right to
exercise it aaron Hanlon is an assistant
professor at Colby College in Maine he
destroyed a piece for The New Republic
saying that colleges have a right to
make what he calls value judgments by
blocking speakers they disagree with mr.
Hanlon joins us tonight professor thanks
for coming on thanks very much for
having me Tucker so pardon my surprise
that a liberal arts professor would be
defending squelching free speech I read
your piece in The New Republic outlined
for us quickly if you would your
justification for not allowing people
you disagree with speaking on college
campuses I'm sure so I'm actually
personally very speech permissive I
would say I'm very Pro speech almost
absolutist on speech but my my view is
basically that universities institution
institutions of higher education should
be able to make value judgments about
quality of speaker not ideological tests
not about whether the speaker is not mob
rule or popularity contests but
judgments about the quality of the
speaker and that's
suitability for a speech at an
institution of higher education
okay so free speech and it has been
defined pretty precisely by the Supreme
Court is not curtailed by other people's
views of it in other words you have an
absolute right to say what you think you
deliver your political opinions in
public and the truth is you know is that
colleges abridge that freedom of speech
on the basis of political preference
they don't like people for their views
for their conservative views and so they
prevent them from speaking why would you
defend that I wouldn't in fact that's
not the argument the argument is not
that there should be a test based on the
political views of the speaker the
argument is that there should be a
consideration of the relative quality of
the speaker and the suitability of the
speaker for the educational mission of
an institution of higher education okay
so those are so subjective those terms
that they allow a college to stop speech
they disagree with which is of course
exactly what happens I can't think of an
occasion in the life of Colby College
for example when conservatives students
have stopped a liberal speaker it's
always the other way around so what are
the criteria why is Ann Coulter for
example who's raising big public policy
issues immigration why is she not
suitable well a couple points on this
one is that if you look at it's a
wonderful service by the foundation for
individual rights in education Fire
provides a database of disinvited
speakers or dis invitation attempts and
if you look at that you'll see that it's
actually not always from the left that
this invitation or no platforming
happens so I want to just correct that
but what is the fact of the matter is
can you name a single example where a
speaker has been physically prevented
from speaking by conservative students
I know basically that Barack Obama and
Alice Walker have been sort of denied or
at least the panel today no no they were
not to sit on from speaking nobody put
their bodyguards in the hospital nobody
threw rocks against the building or
pounded on the windows conservative
students have not that I'm aware of and
I would denounce it immediately if they
did stopped any speaker and yet you see
it on the left and yet your peace
doesn't say one word about
I wonder why oh I actually am pretty
explicit in that piece and in other
pieces about my opposition to any kind
of violent or disruptive protest of any
speaker of any ideological persuasion so
I won't be I wouldn't defend any of that
type of action and at Berkeley of course
we the the conflict is not just left
wing radicals being violent it's also
right wing radicals putting on body
armor and coming there for a fight as
well okay but the right wingers to the
extent they exist are not the ones who
stop the series of speakers for speaking
there were a hundred percent on the left
and you don't mention that in your piece
and you know it's just any punishment
for those people if you're a near free
speech absolutist as you claim you are
what should happen to people who prevent
someone from expressing his or her
political views well as I've as I've
said and as I've made very clear in my
public writing I do not support anybody
of any ideological persuasion forcibly
shutting down speech the issue is that
conservative groups on campus have
intelligently discerned a strategy
whereby they invite speakers who are
deliberately provocative often not
interested in actually debating ideas
and fulfilling an educational mission
and their visits to an institution they
invite those speakers and quite frankly
a lot of people on the Left fall into
that trap wait so really you're blaming
the victim here because people are quote
deliberately provocative can you hear
yourself you're a college professor and
you're against intellectual debate
that's quote deliberately provocative
shouldn't it be deliberately provocative
intellectually provocative
I mean intellectual debate was the the
word that you use but I don't think I
would characterize Mylo putting up
pictures of students and professors and
at his talk and making fun of them as
intellectually provocative that's
provocative and there are plenty of
places that students faculty and anybody
else can go to get provocation that's
not particularly well thought out I mean
that's what the internet is for so
should we then turn on
institutions of higher education into a
kind of wild-west style you know
recapitulation stood allow you should
allow some diversity of views and you
don't and so you're saying basically
these people's views aren't worthy of
hearing we're editing them out why not
burn their books why is it different
what you're suggesting um no it's a
theory cuz I because you can read their
books no it's I take the question
seriously I mean the point is that a
college has a mission that extends
beyond simply provoking students with
whatever material is out there there's
no ban on students reading and Coulter's
books there's a guy there's no ban on
citizens getting involved in any kind of
politics there's a ban on hearing and
culture on campus and and colleges as
you know blame the speaker for inciting
the violence of others who disagree and
I guess my question is if someone who
says he supports free speech where is
the punishment for the people who are
prohibiting the exercise of free speech
why aren't you mad at them you seem to
be blaming the people who dare to have
ideas you don't agree with oh I mean I'm
I'm I'm of course mad at people who are
shutting down speech forcibly right what
might happen I think that should they be
I'm I'm not really in the it's not my
interest in adjudicating punishment
these people one of them in other words
because it's not my role
I mean I'm that I'm not a disciplinary
Road look you just wrote a piece making
apologies for people who shut down free
speech trying to create an intellectual
framework to justify fascism in effect
and now you're saying I can't comment
and that my it's a really simple
question if a student prevents a speaker
for speaking what should happen to the
student it's a question that's beside
the point of the argument which is that
colleges should be able to have
standards for the speakers that they
bring yeah boy liberals used to defend
free speech absolutely thanks professor
Heather